README.md, before:

# Redirect Checker

The Redirect Checker is a cli that allows to generate an nginx map from csvs/xlsx & checks the validity of the redirect - according to the input. 

## Installation 

`yarn`

## Usage

To get an overview of all available options run 

```bash
./redirect-checker --help
```

**Output:** 
```
Usage: redirect-checker [options]

Options:
  --url <url>                 Base URL entries will be tested against.
  --source <source>           Relative path to csv or xlsx file (default: "./input/redirects.xlsx")
  --sheets <sheets>           Exclude only certain sheets by name, comma separated. e.g: jahresreport,halb jahres report
  --googleSheetsId <sheetId>  Google Sheet Id - eg. https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/<google-sheets-id>
  --debug                     enables additional output
  --to-nginx                  creates an an redirects.map & redirects.txt nginx file
  -h, --help                  display help for command
```

Run basic check 
```bash
./redirect-checker --url "https://wienenergie.at"
```

# Source

## Document Structure

| old                             | new                           | comment                           | exclude | testonly | regexEnabled |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | --------------------------------- | ------- | -------- | ------------ |
| /tarifkampangne                 | /tarifkampagne                | Fixes Typo                        |         |          |              |
| ^/blog/energie                  | /blog/wien$1                  | Fix for blog                      |         |          | x            |
| /blog/energie/going-live        | /blog/energie/wien/going-live | test for blog case                |         | x        |              |
| /imnotsureifineedtoberedirected | /imprettysurethough           | Disabled - because we're not sure | x       |          |              |

## Available Sources

### File Based
* csv
* xlsx

### Cloud Based

**Google Sheets**

Usage: 
1. Add your credentials.json to /drivers/credentials.json
   (https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/quickstart/nodejs)
2. run the `redirect-checker` with the `--googleSheetsId "ID-HERE"` option
3. You're all set. The script now uses the google sheet as the source

> Please be aware the the file has to be a "real" google sheet (you can spot an invalid "xlsx" sheet by the green "xlsx" next to the sheet title)

Commit message:

fix: replace spaces with nginx syntax and add example nginx config to test

README.md, after:

# Redirect Checker

The Redirect Checker is a cli that allows to generate an nginx map from csvs/xlsx & checks the validity of the redirect - according to the input.

## Installation

`yarn`

## Usage

To get an overview of all available options run

```bash
./redirect-checker --help
```

**Output:**

```
Usage: redirect-checker [options]

Options:
  --url <url>                 Base URL entries will be tested against.
  --source <source>           Relative path to csv or xlsx file (default: "./input/redirects.xlsx")
  --sheets <sheets>           Exclude only certain sheets by name, comma separated. e.g: jahresreport,halb jahres report
  --googleSheetsId <sheetId>  Google Sheet Id - eg. https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/<google-sheets-id>
  --debug                     enables additional output
  --to-nginx                  creates an an redirects.map & redirects.txt nginx file
  -h, --help                  display help for command
```

Run basic check

```bash
./redirect-checker --url "https://wienenergie.at"
```

# Source

## Document Structure

| old                             | new                           | comment                           | exclude | testonly | regexEnabled |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | --------------------------------- | ------- | -------- | ------------ |
| /tarifkampangne                 | /tarifkampagne                | Fixes Typo                        |         |          |              |
| ^/blog/energie                  | /blog/wien\$1                 | Fix for blog                      |         |          | x            |
| /blog/energie/going-live        | /blog/energie/wien/going-live | test for blog case                |         | x        |              |
| /imnotsureifineedtoberedirected | /imprettysurethough           | Disabled - because we're not sure | x       |          |              |

## Available Sources

### File Based

- csv
- xlsx

### Cloud Based

**Google Sheets**

Usage:

1. Add your credentials.json to /drivers/credentials.json
   (https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/quickstart/nodejs)
2. run the `redirect-checker` with the `--googleSheetsId "ID-HERE"` option
3. You're all set. The script now uses the google sheet as the source

> Please be aware the the file has to be a "real" google sheet (you can spot an invalid "xlsx" sheet by the green "xlsx" next to the sheet title)

### Test the redirects.txt with NGINX

You need to have nginx installed on your computer to use the cli

```bash
 nginx -t -c $(pwd)/nginx.conf
```
